# NEH Grant Proposal

Welcome to my NEH Grant on the topic of women being represented within the House of Representatives and in Congress.

# Table of Contents

List of Particpants

Narrative
  - Enhancing the Humanities
  - Environmental Scan
  - History of the project
  - Work Plan
  - Final Product
  - Biography 
  
 Works Cited 
 
# List of Participants

Project Director: Kobi White - University of Richmond

Board of Advisors: 
  - Dr. Lauren Tilton - University of Richmond
  - Dr. Melissa Ooten - University of Richmond
  - Rachel Rigsby - Little Rock Central High School
  

# Narrative 

**Enhancing the Humanities (500-1000 words)**

In light of this year being election season for midterms, I started to wonder what important information could be gathered from the 
election campaigns and donations. With my background in women's gender and sexuality studies, I wanted to relate any information that 
I found to be related to this area.

That brought me to the idea of women on the campaign trail running for positions within Congress and the House of Representatives. This 
is a phenomenon that has been occurring for years but is starting to gain more traction and more of the cadidates that are running 
for the top positions such as govenors, Secretary of State, or even the Supreme Court are women. I thought that it would be interesting 
to see this come together using one of the tools of the digital humanities. 

Since politics are predisposed as a male-dominated area, women who are campaigning for open positions in politics have to have a strong 
network of relationships. These networks will be built using information gathered from past media coverage through news outlets such as 
CNN, MSNBC, Fox,  and Twitter to see who tagged who during the election season. The NEH grant would focus on building two networks to 
show the relationships with other promenient women in politics that the female candidates have had over the years. It is important to 
note here that all female candidates that have run for a seat within either Congress or the House will be included in these networks, 
regardless of their party affiliation. I think this would help the public be aware of who knows who because it can be difficult to gleam 
that information from the media. Having these networks readily available with the connections could be helpful in solving this problem.

The questions that I hope to answer through this project are as follows:

1. Are there close relationships between candidates across party lines?
2. Will this be a trend that continues over the next several election seasons?
3. How would adding additional parameters such as male relationships change the networks?
4. Is there a correlation between candidates who are mothers? Do they reach out to other female candidates that are mothers?


**Environmental Scan (500-1000 words)**

The Digital Scholarship Lab (DSL) at the University of Richmond did a mapping project that shows the election of the House of 
Representatives, which is similar to what will be done throughout the course of my project. But it will be done via a network rather 
than a map like the DSL has done. The DSL project also only covers the election of represenatives from the years 140 to 2016. I would like to expand on this data and include the most recent elections that occurred this year. I also would work to keep the project up to date and ensure that all information is checked on a regular basis to ensure that it is indeed accurate. I have included some pictures below of the DSL project. 

# DSL Map View
![alt text](https://github.com/introdh/intro-dh2018-kaydub14/blob/master/images/dslmap.png "map_view")

This picture shows the map of all 50 states and shades the number of represenatives of each party from each state. The user can click on 
each state and select a county within that state to see more specific data about the elections there. However, I would make sure that 
the color scheme in my project is lighter so that it does not strain the eyes of the viewers. I also would make the data points at the 
bottom of the map bigger so that anyone with any visual impairment can see the points better. 

# DSL Cartogram View
![alt text](https://github.com/introdh/intro-dh2018-kaydub14/blob/master/images/dsl.png "cartogram_view")

In the Cartogram view, the user is able to see popular elections. But the problem here is that the cities are not easy to read so I would ensure that everything is in a larger font on my website.

**History of the project**

The history of this project was mentioned a little bit before. But to delve further into what was aforementioned, women running for 
positions in the House of Representatives and Congress caught my interest. I thought it would be interesting to see which women knew who 
and the connections amongst the women within these areas of politics because women have to have a strong network of relationships. For 
the 2018 Midterm elections, "there was a 75% increase in women of color among nominees for Congress since 2012" (Ruiz-Grossman, 2018). I 
think that this increase in women of color running for seats in the House and Congress will only continue to increase and I would like 
to track this change over time. Keeping track of these women and the relations that they hold with other people will help the future 
candidates who plan to run connect with the candidates who have already run.

While some sources think that this trend in women of color running for positions within the House and Congress is not going to last, I 
do. Women are becoming bold and fierce and stepping up to the plate. They are "women who are not necessarily waiting to be asked, not 
waiting to be asked to the dance," but rather, "they're just stepping up and engaging as candidates" (Kurtzelben, 2018). 

Refer to the sources below to build the background of this project. 
https://www.cnn.com/2018/09/16/politics/house-women-update-september/index.html


**Work Plan (500 words)**

The timeline of getting this project up and running is about three to four months. I set this timeline to ensure enough time for data 
gathering and the building of the website. For month one, I will spend the time gathering the data and assembling it into a database 
from which it can be pulled. The data will come from various media outlets such as CNN, MSNBC, Fox, and Twitter as mentioned before. 

In month two, I want to work with Dr. Tilton to compile all of the data into the networks using R Studio. Since the current software 
package in R Studio is not built to deal with this kind of data, there will be a few tweaks that need to be made. While this may be a 
long process, I believe it will be worth it. It is important to note that issues can occur in the process of building the networks in R 
Studio, hence why I have allowed a month's worth of time to work these kinks out. If any issues do occur, then myself and Dr. Tilton can 
take a deeper look in the code of the R language to figure out where the bug is. 

When month three rolls around, I would like to be able to start moving the networks over to the website. I was thinking that a nicer 
platform that is pleasing to the eye of the viewer would be nice. So I thought about Wix since it is an easy-to-build, time efficient 
way to build a website without actually coding. Once the data is moved over, the goal then would be to put all of the information 
regarding the project that has been outlined in this grant on the website. I would like to explain the nature of the project, why it was 
done, and how it can built upon in the future.

During month four, I would like to test the website with a small audience. That audience could be the Digital Scholarship Lab at the 
University of Richmond. The purpose of this pilot test is to get feedback and areas of improvement that potentially could improve the 
website. For the pilot stage, I will put a feedback or "Contact Us" form for the pilot audience to leave feedback. I want to ensure that 
the website is clear in its purpose of being created and that others can easily understand that. After doing the pilot test for the 
first half of the fourth month, I will take all of the critique into consideration and tweak the website accordingly. For the second 
half of the month, the website will go live for the public to see it. I want this website to be open access on the Internet. But as I 
don't want changes to be made by the public, the project code would be closed-access. When the website goes live, I will be working with 
Dr. Tilton to fix any bugs that take place. It is my hope that there won't be any bugs that occur. 

**Final Product and dissemination (500-1000 words)**

Since I plan to push the results of the relationships that female candidates have using a Wix website, it will be easily accessible. 
However, as explained in the Work Plan section, I plan to use R Studio to build the two networks. Then I will move the images of the two 
networks over to the Wix website. Once I've done the pilot test with the Digital Scholarship Lab, I will then publicize the website on 
my social media such as Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn. I have picked these two avenues because this is where I will be able to 
leverage my strong tie relationships with people that I know such as my family and their friends. I would want this to be a trickle 
effect in a way. If one of my family members or connections on LinkedIn shares the link to the website, their connections would be able 
to see it. I also intentionally have selected these three social media platforms because they push social networks the most. Since this 
project will be composed of two networks, I thought I would keep that going in how I get the word out. 

I also would want the Digital Scholarship Lab at the University of Richmond to have access to this project and promote it via their 
website. That would be the way to disseminate this project through academic avenues since I do not have much academic experience and 
background. It would be my hope that through the Digital Scholarship Lab publishing this project on their website, I would get some news 
coverage within the academic realm. I would also like to present this project at academic conferences relating to the humanities. I 
think it would be impactful for me to present since I would have the opportunity to network with other scholars within the digital 
humanities. I intend to link everything back to the website whenever asked about this project. I say this because the website will be 
where everything is stored. I also hope to create a press release with the University of Richmond and be available by email for 
comments, if there are any further questions or if someone wants to provide feedback about the site. I do want people to express their 
opinions about the website and want to be accessible regarding the project.

In terms of disabilities, this project is going to be accessible to everyone. There will be handles on the images such as what was done 
for the above pictures in the Environmental Scan section to ensure that people with any visual impairments can see each description of 
the networks. I also am aiming to ensure that the website is straightforward so users don't have to click around to find what they're 
looking for. As far as hearing impairment goes, if I include a video clip of an interview done by one of the female candidates while 
they were on the campaign trail, I will ensure that there are captions available because I know how important they are. 

**Biography (250 words)**

Kobi White is a current undergraduate student at the University of Richmond. She is pursuing a degree in Women's Gender and Sexuality 
Studies with a minor in Entrepreneurship. She was exposed to the field of Digital Humanities through her Introduction to Digital 
Humanities course. Here, she was able to learn the tools and background necessary to build an interest in Digital Humanities. Through 
the introduction course, I was able to learn what digital humanities is and how it is applicable to problems that exist in our world 
today. I also was able to learn about each tool of the digital humanities is and how it plays a role in contributing to the overall 
questions that are raised through the humanities. These tools can be presented individually or intertwined together in order to make a 
project with more impact. Due to this introductory course, I will be able to contribute to this project in a visual way through the use of multiple networks. 

Also, to assist with this project, White has assembled a board of advisors to ensure that any advice given would be directly applicable 
to the project. The instructor of the Introduction to Digital Humanities, Dr. Lauren Tilton, was instrumental in teaching the main 
concepts of Digital Humanities throughout the course. She has a wide depth of experience and expertise through her research. This is why 
Dr. Tilton was selected to be on her Board of Advisors for this project. Next, Dr. Melissa Ooten was selected to be a part of the board 
of advisors because of her background in women and gender studies. She would be helpful in providing additional background information 
on the women/gender aspect of the project. Lastly, Mrs. Rachel Rigsby was selected to be on the advisory board due to her extensive 
knowledge of history, as she is a high school AP World History teacher in Little Rock, Arkansas. She would be instrumental in providing 
the historical perspective of women being added to the House of Representatives and Congress over the last few decades. Together, the 
advisory board would be greatly beneficial in helping White to further identify any trends that would be applicable to the rise of women 
running for positions within the House of Representatives and Congress. 

# Works Cited

Kurtzleben, Danielle. "Is The Record Number Of Women Candidates A 2018 Blip - Or A Lasting Trend?" NPR. September 25, 2018. Accessed 
December 04, 2018. https://www.npr.org/2018/09/25/651085628/is-the-record-number-of-women-candidates-a-2018-blip-or-a-lasting-trend.

Ruiz-Grossman, Sarah. "Dramatic Increase In Women Of Color As 2018 Candidates: Report." The Huffington Post. October 11, 2018. Accessed 
December 04, 2018. https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/women-of-color-candidates-increase-2018-midterm-
elections_us_5bbe8a71e4b0c8fa1367e58e.

Sparks, Grace. "256 Women Won House and Senate Primaries, a Huge New Record." CNN. September 17, 2018. Accessed December 05, 2018. 
https://www.cnn.com/2018/09/16/politics/house-women-update-september/index.html.
